---
title: More Sublime with Dropbox and Symlinks
author: Vince
layout: post
permalink: /222/
categories:
  - Blog Posts
tags:
  - software
  - Sublime Text 2
  - text editors
---
What I love the most about [Sublime Text 2][1] is how much I can tweak and change it to my exact needs. For instance, when I&#8217;m editing a php file I can use a different font face than when I&#8217;m writing in markup. I can also specify different packages and settings for different tasks, like line numbers for coding and spell checking for writing. This flexibility is great, but often I found that I would change a setting or install a package at home and then miss it the next day at the office (I know, first-world problems at their finest). To get around this limitation I used symlinks to trick Sublime into looking to my Dropbox for all its settings and package files.

## Wait, what&#8217;s a symlink?

A symlink or &#8220;Symbolic Link&#8221; is a reference from one point on your hard drive to another. It is, in effect, like a shortcut in Windows or an alias in OS X but with one important difference: where an alias or shortcut will jump you to the location which it points, a symlink will route the information from the linked directory to the current location. More detail on symlinks can be found on [Wikipedia][2] but for now the important thing to know is that a program like Sublime text doesn&#8217;t know the difference between a symlink to a settings folder and its original settings folder.

Dropbox only wants to sync what&#8217;s in your Dropbox folder, nothing more, nothing less. But (now here&#8217;s the fun part) there is nothing stopping you from symbolically linking any file or folder on your system to a file or folder in your Dropbox. This means you can have any data, settings, or even program files sunk in Dropbox across all your system (and devices).

## How it&#8217;s done

The first step was to move sublimes packages and settings folders to Dropbox. I previously set up an &#8220;AppData&#8221; directory where all my Dropbox supporting applications saved their data.

    mv ~/Library/Application\ Support/Sublime\ Text\ 2/Packages ~/Dropbox/AppData/Sublimetext
    mv ~/Library/Application\ Support/Sublime\ Text\ 2/Prestine\ Packages ~/Dropbox/AppData/Sublimetext
    mv ~/Library/Application\ Support/Sublime\ Text\ 2/Installed\ Packages ~/Dropbox/AppData/Sublimetext
    

Then I just replaced the old folder with symbolic links to their new location in my Dropbox.

    ln -s ~/Dropbox/AppData/SublimeText2/Packages/ ~/Library/Application\ Support/Sublime\ Text\ 2/Packages
    ln -s ~/Dropbox/AppData/SublimeText2/Prestine\ Packages/ ~/Library/Application\ Support/Sublime\ Text\ 2/Prestine\ Packages
    ln -s ~/Dropbox/AppData/SublimeText2/Installed\ Packages/ ~/Library/Application\ Support/Sublime\ Text\ 2/Installed\ Packages
    

Now if I&#8217;m at work and I install a package like [Sublimelinter][3], the package will be available on my home desktop and my laptop almost immediately. It&#8217;s really cool.

 [1]: http://www.sublimetext.com/
 [2]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Symbolic_link
 [3]: https://github.com/SublimeLinter/SublimeLinter